you know I've had people say that I'm a
fence sitter and that I I need to have
some sort of call to
action and I guess like if there's
anything that I would respond to that
with a Pharisee asked Jesus teacher
which is the greatest commandment in the
law and Jesus replied love the Lord your
God with all your heart with all your
soul and with all your mind this is the
first and greatest commandment and the
second is love your neighbor as yourself
if we could learn to make that our
priority if would resolve a lot of the
conflicts that have become like way over
complicated you
[Music]
know hello everyone watching and
listening today I'm speaking with
musician Chris Lunsford better known by
his stage name Oliver Anthony
we discussed the balance between vision
and efficiency in artistic and
Commercial Endeavors why Chris's hit
song rich men north of Richmond has
resonated so broadly and so quickly the
way honest expression through music can
combat
demoralization how politics have become
confused with the sacred and what we can
do to restore each to their proper order
looking very much forward to it so Mr
Anthony your your stage name your stage
Persona is Oliver your name is Chris I'm
going to call you Chris you're going to
call me Jordan so here's something you
might not know about me and I don't care
you
know maybe you want to know it maybe not
I've been collecting country and western
music for about 30 years something like
that I I had a roommate from Southern
Alberta in college in Montreal I wasn't
really a country and western fan at that
point um he really liked Hank Williams
and I started listening to Hank Williams
and I thought oh my God man this is
great and when I moved to Boston I
started collecting old vinyl records of
course I list I had records when I was a
kid but at at in the '90s in Boston you
could pick up vinyl for like three for a
buck you know it was Dirt Cheap so I
used to go into the record stores and
pick up any old weird looking album
usually from the ' 50s 40s through the
60s and I built a big collection of
country and western music and then I
made a couple of CDs I called Western
blues and was giving those out for
Christmas presents and I actually have a
Spotify I have a Spotify playlist that's
29 hours long now with 600 songs on it
that I've collected for 40 years my wife
and I listen to it a lot in the car it's
real good driving music you know and I'm
going to just list some of the
characters that I listen to you're
famili amiliar with all these guys but a
lot of people watching and listening
won't be and they should be uh there's
Hank Williams of course bill monr is
Kentucky boys Colter Wall's a new guy
from Saskatchewan oh yeah he's a great
young yeah he's great uh um my son
played one of his songs to open my
lectures for 11 shows this year that was
really fun um Johnny Horton uh Tex
Ritter Hank Snow flat and Scruggs The
Carter family Jimmy Rogers the Stanley
Brothers Roy
aov Roy aov Hackberry Ramblers Gypsy
Kings Leon Redbone Etc Tammy and I my
wife we've just watched the Ken Burns
country music documentary which is
absolutely great it's just brilliant
Eight 2hour Episodes and I've done a
couple of shows at the Grand old Opry in
Nashville so that was fun there's a
great bar there called Robert's Western
world that I go to when I go down to
Nashville and they have a band there
called Kelly's Heroes they did some
music for me at the Grand Old opery I
played a vicious rendition of the
American national anthem on electric
guitar um and uh they do a great uh they
do a great version of ghost riters in
the sky great blues guitar version of
ghost riters in the sky so anyways I
thought I'd tell you that just so you
know that I'm not a johnnyc come lately
to the to the kind of music that you've
been playing and so yeah that's yeah
that's very um very in like with with my
listening so I love the a lot of the
older music and older Blues like delta
blues and that type of thing but yeah
that's uh I wouldn't have guessed that
about you so that's that's good to know
yeah it's it's yeah well about I about a
quarter of this Spotify playlist is
delta blues too because there's a great
overlap right between between the that
delta blues tradition and the kind of
music that you're interested in and and
it it's a you saw that too I saw that
really portrayed well for example I
don't know if you've seen the new Elvis
movie a relatively new Elvis movie which
I thought was great but it does a lovely
job of laying out the relationship
between that black blues tradition and
that Western Country tradition you know
it's not a it's not a connection that
people often make but there's there's a
real sync there in terms of musical
genre nice interplay between the
different musical forms so cool to see
and of course we're all the
beneficiaries of that you
know American Musical tradition so
something you may look at adding to your
playlist or looking up that I think
you'd find interesting is um it I don't
know who the group is in the video but
if you go on YouTube it's called
Carpathian folk music and it's usually
the first video to pull up under
Carpathian folk music and it's maybe I
want to say it's about 45 minutes long
and it goes oh okay and it it it plays
out almost like a symphony like it
starts it starts in sort of one element
and then it it has its ups and downs and
um I've listened to that thing 200 times
you know it's like uh sitting out in the
woods listening to that it's it it it
takes you on a ride almost the way like
Beethoven would but it's it reminds me
kind of almost a lot of the older
Country and blues it's it's a very weird
it's a very weird element but it's got a
lot of the sort of Bluegrass elements to
it fiddle and uh upright base and stuff
like that you ought to check it out the
Carpathian folk music I like I will 100
will 100% check that out yeah you know
one of the things that's really quite a
mystery about music and I can't quite
figure it out is you know I like
classical music I listen to a lot of
music in the car and classical music's
hard to listen to in a car because it's
got such an immense D dynamic range but
you know classical music is obviously
extremely sophisticated and complex and
Brilliant and and and you know reaches
up into this Stratosphere of Genius but
there's dead simple music that manages
exactly the same thing I mean Johnny
Cash is a great example of that because
well in the Ken Burns documentary you
find out when Johnny Cash first started
I mean his musicians could barely play
at all you know they knew like three
chords of course the Sex Pistols were
like that too and weirdly enough and I
don't get this exactly is that there's
there's a one of the Hallmarks of
musical genius is authenticity and
genuiness right so you can take a really
simple Melody and you can do something
stunningly brilliant with it Hank
Williams is great at that and it gives
it a depth that's Timeless right it it
doesn't it doesn't age well which is
what Timeless means of course but I and
it has to be something like that
genuiness and it must be something like
that that sparked the imagination of
people around your song right because
and I was listening to it I listened to
it a couple of times this morning just
to ref familiarize myself with it before
we talked and you have a genuiness of
voice
that has obviously struck a cord and so
what I'm curious about that is first of
all I'm really curious about how you're
doing because you've been like the
center of a media Firestorm here in the
last couple of weeks and that must be
shocking to you what's that be like and
why do you think your song what is it
about your song that you think you did
write that that contributed to its going
viral H so I I have taking time to try
to to understand that myself um you know
the
song the song skyrocketed in a way that
it it I you know there's been
accusations that it was that it was
propped up you know almost that I'm an
industry plant because it it was like we
posted the song on on um we recorded it
on a on a Saturday I think he uploaded
it on Tuesday and by Thursday man we
were we were on a roller coaster ride
like it was already apparent that things
were going we heading in a direction
that nothing else on his channel had
done previously radio WV um and yeah I
mean I guess to answer the first part of
your question how I'm doing I'm s
surprisingly very calm like um I have
I've been entertained the last couple
weeks I I've G been given sort of an
unfair advantage of how the internet
works and how how narratives are spread
in certain directions to it you know
people form opinions about things like
for example me playing the Super Bowl
you know I've gotten um I've gotten a
lot of comments and messages saying that
I'm a sellout that I've decided to sing
at the Super Bowl but that was just an
internet meme that someone created on
Facebook uh like for example the one the
one that popped up yesterday was that um
Oliver Anthony stuck at Burning Man and
people were sending me stuff telling me
how terrible it was that I'm at this
like oh you know Burning Man this
Satanic ritual place and you shouldn't
be there and it like but the but you
know I uploaded a video of me hanging
out with my goats in the woods like yeah
man Burning Man it really it's a you
know it's terrible being stuck at
Burning Man but um so I don't know i' I
I try not to take myself so seriously
and I've tried not to take this
situation so seriously it's just um it's
I I'm blessed for the opportunity to be
here I mean even just being able to have
a conversation with you is surreal U
meeting Joe was surreal just um the
artists that I've looked up to like
Jamie Johnson and Shooter Jennings and
it's just so weird that there a phone
call away now uh so um I'm I'm doing
well like I I you know as I'm sure you
know like my the last couple years
haven't been so great for me anyway as
far as my own um my own perception on
life and so this is exciting to have a
new opportunity to to dive into it's
what I've been it's really what I've
been wanting to do for a long time I've
just been so terrified of the idea of
doing it but here here I am like there's
no there's no going back now I guess
so you've probably heard by now that you
should be using a VPN when you connect
to the internet but if you're like me
adding an extra step to anything you do
every day just sounds like a hassle well
let me tell you if you knew how easy it
was to protect your connection with
expressvpn you'd be doing it already
expressvpn is the easiest way to browse
safely securely and it's just better
expressvpn gets rid of all those things
you hate about vpns it's a VPN done
right first of all it's blazing fast
lots of other VPN slow your connection
to the point where it's not even worth
it to connect but expressvpn doesn't lag
or buffer you can stream in HD with no
issues and using it couldn't be easier
just open the expressvpn app click one
button and enjoy instant protection
across all of your devices the fact is
once you connect to expressvpn you don't
even realize you have it on no wonder
it's been called called the bestvpn by
CNET right now go to expressvpn.com
Jordan that's exp SS vpn.com Jordan and
get three extra months free
expressvpn.com
Jordan yeah well that's actually
something I wanted to talk to you about
because I was reading when I was doing
some background research on you I and
this is relevant to the issue of selling
out that you brought up so you know I've
worked with a lot of artists and I've
worked with a lot of wannabe artists too
you know or at least had contact with
them and one of the things I've really
noticed is that many of the people I've
met who are extremely artistically
talented shoot themselves in the foot on
the commercial side of things and they
do that in three ways the first is four
ways the first is they're actually
terrified of commercial success and
that's actually understandable because
along with Commercial Success comes a
transformation in in lifestyle and in
Social positioning and it's easy to be
leery of that and there's some utility
in that especially if you're a private
person you know and but then there's
ideological issues that come up too so
it's the issue of selling out is a
really relevant one you know lots of
artists will refuse to have anything to
do with the commercial end of their
Enterprise because they're afraid that
that will interfere with the flourishing
of their artistic spirit and that that's
foolish and it's foolish for a bunch of
reasons like first of all why create
unless people have access to what you
create I mean maybe you enjoy it
yourself and that would be perfectly the
case for example with music but you know
if you're a performer in principle you
want people to well hear what you have
to perform and partly so they can enjoy
it partly so you can get feedback so you
can get better and so you actually want
to bring it your work to the attention
of as many people as possible the people
who and moan about selling out
most loudly are almost always people
who've had no opportunity to sell out
like no one's ever offered them the
chance to be commercially successful and
so what they do is they elevate their
moral stance um falsely by claiming that
they're the sort of people that would
never fall prey to any capitalist
Temptations when the truth is they're
not telling Ed enough or interesting
enough for anyone to ever offer them
that possibility and then the other
thing that creative people do that's a
really big problem is they
don't construe the marketing end the
communication end as another creative
challenge you know so if you're a
creative person you actually overlap
with people who have entrepreneurial
interests temperamentally but one of the
things you can do if you're creative and
this stops you from selling out is to
understand that the Venture of Market
marketing yourself and presenting
yourself and developing a professional
Persona and also learning how to buffer
yourself against the negative
consequences of that is also a creative
challenge you know because you might ask
any creative person might ask well if I
was going to handle the problem of being
successful
creatively how would I do that and then
it becomes another creative problem
instead of like an an antithesis between
let's say say the selling out capitalism
that would warp your you know your
creative spirit and and the creative
Spirit itself so I'm wondering in your
situation I read today that you had an
$8 million contract offer that you
turned down I'm wondering if that's true
if it's true why you did it what your
alternative plans are and if you have
like a real developed vision for what it
would be like to keep doing what you're
doing but also be
successful that's a lot of questions
oh that's okay I I knew what I was
getting into when I came on the on the
program I understand yeah I
uh music is music is important to me
individually like these songs that I
wrote I wrote for me and and
inadvertently it has helped a lot of
other people like not just Richmond
north of Richmond but I've got to get
sober like that's one that I just
recorded on my Android phone and if you
look through the comments and emails
I've gotten I had a I had a gentleman
the other day at moyak we did a we
played at a farm market and he told me
that his
um his brother had committed suicide he
had been he had been struggling with
drugs for
years um this is like a big Gruff guy
like a guy that looked like he could
kill me with two fingers and uh we
hugged each other and he as he cried and
told me me this like that's that's
what's important to me is like people
are just so desperate to restore some
element of humanity back in our life
that we've somehow lost
um so I don't want to I I I don't want
to make this into some Enterprise where
everything's about beating the algorithm
and being at the top of the charts and
and and posting in social media at just
the right time to capture the most
audience like that that there's plenty
of people who are out playing that game
and they're good at it and I'd like for
them to continue to do that I I want
to I just want to feel like I have the
freedom to do whatever I find it is
necessary in in that moment of time to
to impact people the way I have so far
with the music that I've produced um I
have something like 21,000 emails right
now in my Gmail I've got two I've got
got 2500 unread messages on Tik Tok
Instagram Facebook like and they're not
just people telling me good music dude
keep it up no it's like it's paragraphs
of of stories of like people having to
work two jobs because they lost their
business during coid and their kid
committed suicide and like I mean it's
just wretched stuff that it's it is the
it is the full transparent Narrative of
what a lot of us already see on the
surface level of what's happened the
last few years and yeah so like I don't
know what I want my music to turn into I
it may it may manifest itself into some
into some form of a um of like a
nonprofit or a Ministry more than than
just me going out like I don't want to I
don't want to just go yell all my songs
in a
stadium you know every weekend for the
rest of my life like I want this to to
turn into something that's more
meaningful than that if that makes any
sense so well there's a bunch of things
you said there I mean when I started to
blow up
and started working in a much more broad
public manner one of the things that was
really hard on me was the the kind of
emails that you're describing I'm not
complaining about this I'm just pointing
it out like I'd done a lot of clinical
work and I'd seen a fair bit of misery
in my clinical practice I mean that's
really that's an understatement but you
know it was it was limited at most to a
couple of dozen people and then all of a
sudden I was doing lectures for
thousands of people and meeting
thousands of people and also and then
hearing the kind of stories that you're
hearing from hundreds or thousands of
people and you know you talked
about dehumanization and Desperation and
it's really quite overwhelming to start
to see that in that heartfelt sense you
described you know that that big guy was
giving you a hug and breaking into tears
I mean you meet a couple of hundred
people like that in a week who do the
same thing and it's it I found that
extremely extremely difficult because I
didn't really understand how widespread
that demoralization and Desperation was
and to see that on large scale was
really heart stopping that's dangerous
add to the point it exists Within the
Music Industry like um they say never
meet your Heroes but I've gotten to meet
quite a few a few of my heroes the last
couple weeks and they have ridden the
roller coaster of signing a big deal and
playing shows and being in that and
being in those contracts and in that
algorithm and they are I I can't speak
for everyone I'm sure there's people
that love to go out and tour and do it
but like a lot of my heroes in music
that I've talk to are not happy doing
what they do like they're not happy
having to go out
and so so they told me let me tell let
me tell you what our experience yeah
yeah yeah well so my wife and I have
been touring now for four
years and I'll I'll tell you how we've
Managed IT if you're interested first of
all it's a real privilege right to be
able to go out there and and speak in
front of thousands of people and it's
been a real adventure to go all over the
world now we have Allied ourselves with
top rate people
and that's unbelievably helpful so I've
got a personal staff that handles
security and
Logistics and they take care of all the
travel details flights hotels getting me
to The Venue tamy and I to The Venue
that's 100% off my plate and we had a
rule that we learned well touring which
was that if you have anyone with you
that causes any trouble at all that they
don't immediately fix so if they're if
they're trouble they have to leave you
have to have people along who are like
100% zero trouble because it's a lot of
work to move from City to City every day
and to be there for thousands of people
and you can't have unnecessary trouble
and then you have to figure out how to
time it so that it doesn't wear you to a
frazzle you know you can die from an
overdose of great opportunities as
you're definitely going to find out and
maybe already have and so you have to
figure out for yourself how you can take
enough time so that you have that
opportunity to do your creative work and
not to exhaust yourself and you know
that takes a certain amount of testing
to see where that balance is I travel
with my wife that really helps we often
travel with some friends or some family
the same rules apply we won't travel
with people that cause any trouble but
it's nice to have people along because
that keeps you well you get to know them
better it's a good adventure for them
and that keeps you together I mean it's
possible to do this in a way that's like
hyper enjoyable and so that you get an
opportunity to play for many people but
um you know it's a demanding Enterprise
and you have to 100% make sure that
you're surrounded by people who take
what can be taken off your plate and
that you can seriously trust and then it
can be well it can be an insane
Adventure yeah I'm excited for the
opportunity to travel yeah like we've
had um
it's as you as you're aware this like
just the initial song broke in so many
countries like um I've gotten an
Outreach it was a shame that I couldn't
um that I couldn't travel abroad yet I
don't have a passport but like I just
got a message last night from a girl in
Rome saying that you know she and her
boyfriend have been riding around all
night listening to my music and um
Ireland and Scotland like I'm I'm I I do
intend to travel I just want to do do it
in a way that is more meaningful than
just showing up in an Amphitheater and
shouting some lyrics at people and then
everybody gets drunk and goes home like
I
I'm I'm sure there's a way I can
conceptualize this to have more impact
because that's that's the importance of
the song to begin with is the impact it
had the it somehow broke it somehow
broke beyond the political the political
front that has like almost encapsulated
every part of our society today not just
in the North America but really globally
like the message resonated with people
in all types of different cultures and
countries it's like this is something
this is this phenomenon of politics sort
of almost parasitically capturing the
way we think about everything that's a
global thing that's not just a North
American thing at this point it's
happening very quick okay yeah okay so
so two things on that well okay first of
all one of the things that's happened
I think is
that the sacred has collapsed into the
profane and so the political has now
become sacred you have to have a space
for things that are sacred so they stay
out of the political and and everything
has become too touchy to talk about
because everything political has become
religious and that's really not a good
thing it's part of the reason that we
need a that a religious Foundation isn't
isn't optional I know you talked about
that a little bit with Rogan yeah now
the other thing that's interesting you
know you said you you don't want to go
just to a stadium and Shout Out lyrics
and let everybody get drunk and go home
and you know one of the things I've also
seen that's unfortunate is that many of
the artists I've talked to and these
were often people who had Stellar like
International careers they're afraid and
I'm not saying that this is necessarily
the case with you but I'd like to talk
about it with you they're afraid that
their mirr art isn't good enough given
the importance let's say of all the
political and and maybe religious
upheaval there is in the world but you
know I don't I actually don't think
that's true I don't think like I've gone
to a lot of concerts and I've watched
the kind of Quasi religious nature of a
great concert and I actually don't think
there's anything more important than an
artist can do then for in your situation
for example is to give the best damn
concert you possibly can you know and
and I can see you're torn between that
to some degree you know cuz you say well
you know you don't want to go and Shout
out a bunch of lyrics so that people can
get drunk and go home home but then that
what you've done has spoken to many
people very deeply all around the world
and that what you've done was a genuine
expression of what you really believe to
be true and I would say that if you go
to a concert and what you do is you
really sing what you believe to be true
there actually is no better service that
you can possibly do to people no matter
what it is that you're doing like I
don't think there is anything except for
what's truly religious I don't think
there is anything that supersedes
genuine art not in terms of potency and
truth and I I think you're seeing that
because of what happened in relationship
to your song and I think that's also
partly because of that other point you
made which is and the same with the song
about sobriety is you're actually
writing your songs I think Hank Williams
did this and Johnny Cash too
unbelievably effectively the genuine
songwriters they're not writing to max
out the algorithm and they're not they
don't have contempt for the audience
that's not what I mean but they're not
doing it they're not doing it for their
own Fame they're doing it to express
something approximating the truth in the
way that they see fit with with with you
that's obviously going to be musical so
one of the things I would say is don't
be thinking there's any higher purpose
you can serve than the genous genuiness
that you bring to your art man good
musicians are I think people die without
good music you know it's so important we
have no idea how important it is it's
yeah I age is to humans it's obvious to
me that music is
um I mean every culture that we know of
whether they're um I mean music is
something that manifests itself in any
society and and the more that people
suffer the more they lean on music you
know um some of the best music's been
written in the worst of times so I
definitely agree like it's there's a
there's an element of healing to it and
and one thing that I've noticed about
the music industry just in my now that
I'm in the business you know uh one of
the things I've noticed is that we
prioritize as with a lot of things in
art now like it's we prioritize through
this through the system of the music
industry we
prioritize what can make the most money
and not necessarily what can resonate
with the most people or what's the most
genuine and authentic and so like in
country music um now I love '90s country
music as a kid remember riding with my
parents and my grandpa and listening to
you know the Allan Jackson and George
Straits and uh Bubba Shot the juke box
and like those are just fun like just
good songs but somewhere country music
and I think music in general has really
lost a connection with people because
it's become it's become too
commercialized and not not enough about
and so that's kind of
like yeah so I did I've turned down a
lot of offers uh the latest one I saw
was 100 million that's certainly not the
case but yeah have had millions of
dollars thrown at me and I've had
everything thrown at me the last couple
weeks and
um but I guess the I guess the reason
why I want to stay on my own path is
that uh I'd like to inspire other
musicians to do the same thing you know
like the the story of kind of how all
this came about is
just I mean most of the music's from my
Android phone that I you know just
recorded put it on YouTube I ripped the
wave file uploaded it there's a service
called kid you can use you pay like a
nominal fee annually they don't take any
of the money and it automatically puts
it on all the platforms for you Spotify
Pandora Apple YouTube music um like I
would like to see more people do what it
is I did like I'd like if anything that
I'd like it to inspire other artists to
to not worry about going through a
record label or worry about trying to
find a big booking agency but just focus
more on on creating whatever it is you
feel compelled to create and get it out
there and not not worry about everything
else because obviously that's what we're
so Des I mean like even just the
Phenomenon with podcasts in the last
five years like the fact that people can
sit here and listen to us talk for an
hour and a half so intently and like
that's been me I I listen to podcast all
day long um people are just at this
point desperate for authenticity and
desperate to connect with other human
beings on a level that we haven't been
able to connect on very well in the last
10 years because of technology and
politics and government and just sort of
this weird separation that's been put
between us and Co certainly accelerated
that uh to to a whole new light like
it's been it's a very weird world we
live in in today and so yeah that's kind
of my thought process I guess to answer
to kind of wrap up that on on me in my
future it's it's more about um trying to
create a new way of thinking with music
and and really it's an old way of
thinking but it's just bringing it into
into our into our time you
know according to a recent study of
hundreds of post-abortive women 60% of
women reported that they would have
preferred to give birth if they had
received more support from others or had
more Financial Security and that's where
pre-born steps in pre-born is there for
women in their Darkest Hour deciding
between the life and death of their
Precious Child the reality is that women
are being pressured to make this fatal
decision and are being told that their
babies are just a clump of cells
pre-born welcomes women with love and
introduces them to the beautiful life
growing inside of them which doubles
their babies chances at life when you
support pre-born you not only support
women you Empower them your donation of
$28 will help a woman receive a free
ultrasound your love can save a life
dial pound 250 and say the key word baby
or visit preborn
docomo all gifts are taxed deductible
you will never regret saving a child's
life that's pound 250 baby or visit
preborn
[Music]
docomo okay so that's very interesting
you know so so it's definitely the case
that the plethora of publishing
platforms now allows artists like
yourself like Joe Rogan let's say to
circumvent the
intermediaries in a way that has never
before been possible right and and
Rogan's a good example of that because
all Rogan did for his podcast all and
this is what CNN objected to was he just
invited people to his discussion that he
wanted to talk to and he talked to them
and he listened and he tried to learn
and at the time that Joe started his
podcast he didn't really need either the
fame or the money because he was already
famous and he had the money and Rogan
isn't someone who's primarily oriented
in that direction anyways um we can talk
about him a little bit in more detail
later too because you were just on his
podcast and he took that advantage of
going directly to the consumer let's say
and S circumventing the intermediaries
and he hasn't wavered from that at all
although he's also partnered with
Spotify right and then I started putting
my lectures on YouTube in 2013 because I
was curious ious about it and I've taken
advantage of the same opportunities that
you've described and it's been great I
would say however and this maybe has
maybe this is relevant to personalizing
things rather than thinking about them
in the abstract now in the last year I
partnered with the daily wire plus
people eh and we really thought about
that for like nine months before we
decided to do it it was a
real intense negoti ation good faith
negotiation on both sides but it was a
very intense negotiation and it was kind
of dicey e because on our side we
thought well do we want to partner with
anyone at all and if we do do we want to
partner with these reprehensible you
know right-wing Wing nuts Ben Shapiro
and his lot and then we also thought am
I going to ruin my podcast by allying it
with something that's somewhat more
corporate in its orientation and that's
a real danger you know and we've we
did have a bit of negotiation around
that when we first started our deal too
because there were ways
that the more corporate guys there
started talking about content providing
that risked turning the podcast into
something that was sort of Legacy Media
polished now on the upside they've
radically improved my ability to do
podcast they set up Studios for me all
around the world I'm in Florence right
now the DW people set up a studio for me
here so I can do this they've increased
the quality of the podcast and they've
left me the hell alone completely if I
want to do something and I suggest it to
them they almost invariably say yes
they're a lot of fun to work with
they're very entrepreneurial they're not
corporate they don't think of content
production they don't talk down to the
audience that's been great and they've
got rid of problems for me rather than
introducing corporate problems and I
would say the same thing with live ation
you know I had my doubts about Live
Nation because of their strangle hold
let's say on ticketing but uh they're a
lot better than some of the corrupt
production people we've got involved
with in countries that aren't as
welldeveloped because we've hit some
fraudsters and so the reason I'm telling
you all this is fairly straightforward
you know on the one hand you have the
advantage of going direct to consumer in
the way that you've described and that
gives artists a tremendous amount of
freedom but if you're very very care F
and judicious in who you're partnering
with you can find people who will open
up new avenues of opportunity for you
without interfering with whatever it is
that you value and what you have to
bring and you have to the devil's in the
details man because it it boils down to
the character of the person the specific
person or persons that you're dealing
with I also have a tour manager
um John who's an absolutely
amazing manager he used to be a comedian
like a traveling comedian he was on the
road all the time so he's on the road
for like 20 years and he's been superb
so you can find people to work with who
will expand your commercial reach
without putting you through the grinder
and and killing the goose that lays the
golden eggs but but it it it requires a
lot of discernment and Care yeah well
discernment is an important an important
concept with all of this yeah because
every decision every word you speak and
every decision you make um Can very
quickly change the course of everything
like in this world it is interesting uh
yeah you bet um yeah and so the I guess
the beauty too with Joe Rogan and with
you and with others is that you
conceptualized and created sort of your
Masterpiece and then decided to bring in
something to help supplement that and
reinforce it and so that's um so maybe
that is something I could you know it's
like you didn't you didn't approach the
daily wire of like hey let's start a
podcast and then like you already sort
of created you sort of created the
format and they just respectfully added
to it and so maybe that's a good way to
go about doing it even with mine yeah
like well one of the things one of the
ways you can tell if you can do that so
in your situation A you're in a
fortunate situation at the moment
because at the at this moment because
you can say no people are coming to you
instead of you going to them as you just
pointed out and so you you have you have
the fortunate opportunity to set the
terms at the beginning and to think
through what those are and you already
told me to some degree is like you don't
want to subordinate your music to
profit you don't want to become a
generic act and you don't want the
corporate world interfering with your
ability to speak directly to people you
know those are principles that are
actually worth writing down you know
like if you and and I often recommend
this to people in general is Imagine and
you could do this it's a very useful
thing to do imagine that you could be
exactly where you wanted to be in five
years like you've got these Stellar
opportunities in front of you so then
you got to allow yourself to imagine
like you're a kid who's pretending or
daydreaming and thinking okay man I I
can be wherever I want five years I'm a
musician I've already got an audience
I've got an audience of people who want
to hear me I've got a lot of commercial
options and then I have a private life
that I enjoy okay how could I bring all
of those together in the optimal way
what would that look like and that's got
to be that's you know there's this line
in the gospels that says that you should
ask and you'll receive you should knock
and the door will open and you should
seek and you'll find and that's actually
an injunction to a kind of meditative
prayer and I idea fundamentally and this
works like a charm is what the hell do
you want just imagine that fortune could
conceivably smile on you in the way that
it has in the last couple of weeks and
you could set up your future so that it
was
literally your dream what would that
look like like you obviously like
performing I mean if you we could do
that a little bit right now if you
imagine you could have a year where you
had exactly the right balance between
performing and having a private life
like what size audiences do you like
playing
for
um yeah that's kind of the challenge I
love the intimacy of a smaller I mean we
did the farm market we had about 12,000
show up and I and like and even with
that despite everyone telling me I was a
fool for doing it I stayed and did like
a meet and greet after for about four
and a half hours but it gave me enough
time that I was able to to I'd like it
to stay at a level I'd like to have
opportunities to be able to meet people
um so 10 or 12 thousand people I mean
we've got we've got a few coming up that
size um you know you go back to your
point about trying to sort of paint a
picture a mental picture of five years
ahead I know you had talked about that
at some point in the lecture and that's
actually I I give you some credit for me
sitting in the chair I'm in now because
I have done that from your
recommendation I I did your self
authoring program and all um maybe two
or three years
ago and uh you know the thing that that
the thing that really spoke to me the
most though is um your story about your
friend Chris because I'm Chris and oh
yeah and I and I was really oh man and I
was you know you talked about your
friend Chris being a uh in a spiring
musician and getting high all the time
and like and I and I if I recall
correctly Chris had had was a from what
I could interpret like with my own
experience maybe he was even
experiencing some like cannabis induc
psychosis and all I remember the story I
think it was Chris that was that was in
the other room and
like yeah that
um yeah I realized like maybe I'm maybe
I'm Chris you know
so uh yeah well there's part of the
reason I wrote about my friend he
eventually committed suicide at at at
about the age of 40 after he phoned me
one night he had got a bunch of his
short stories published in a small book
in an anthology from Northern Alberta
and he's actually a pretty good short
storywriter he was a good photographer
too he was quite a brilliant man this
friend of mine and he did smoke too much
pot and it wasn't good for him and maybe
there was something else going on there
too but he became very bitter and
resentful and it and partly because you
know he regarded his own ambition as
evil he was one of these demoralized
young men an early version of it very a
sensitive person and easily made guilty
and the constant harping about you know
the evil patriarchy and the terrible
consequence of male ambition just
absolutely did him in you know and it
played into his own willing
unwillingness to accept responsibility
in a kind of pathological way was very
sad like I knew him for years and he
lived with me in Montreal when he was
older in his 30s my wife and I for a
while and we kind of we tried to get
help him get his life back on track and
did to some degree but then he left and
went back to Alberta anyways he
committed suicide the day after he had
phoned me and told me about having this
publication he went out in the truck and
hooked
a um a tube to the exhaust and in his
truck and smoked cigarettes up in the
mountains and you know just just let
himself go and it was quite the bloody
catastrophe but it was one of those
situations where yeah his life was too
aimless and he he didn't take his
own potential with enough seriousness he
regarded his ambitious as ambition as
evil he kind of became a nihilistic
Buddhist in the worst possible sense and
you know and drifted was really a real
waste of talent and so it's a hell of a
thing to hear you say you know that you
saw some him in you but it's very very
common
you know and it is a lot better to
develop a vision you talked about this
self-authoring program it's you need a
vision man and so now you said you
talked to 12 you you sang to 12,000
people and that was good but you like
the personal contact with the meet and
greets so my team sets up meet and
greets after my event at every event and
so that's a premium ticket and you know
you can you can what would you say saiz
that as excess
capitalist exploitation but you have to
parse people in some manner when a lot
of people want to see you and it's also
the case you know that people want to
enter into a reciprocal agreement and so
if they're really happy with you in what
you're doing they also want to
contribute and that's part of reasonable
trade now I love the meet and greets you
know I only meet people for about 15
seconds probably and I've but I've
learned to put them at ease very quickly
and to get a bit of a interaction you
know one the things I've learned for
example is that when people approach you
and put out their hand to shake your
hand that's going to happen to you on
the street all the time now obviously is
that you can match your Tempo to theirs
like a dance you move towards them about
as quickly as they move towards you and
I always ask people what their name is
because even if they're nervous most
people can remember their name and once
they tell you
that once they tell you that that sort
of puts them at ease and I really like
the meet and greets you know because it
also helps you
remember who you're that it
differentiates the audience back into
individuals and you should always be
communicating with individuals you know
as soon as you start talking to the
crowd as something kard pointed out as
soon as you start talking to the crowd
you're immediately lying you have to be
talking to the individuals in the crowd
and so I think you can have your cake
and eat it on the touring front you know
you can you can sing to large audiences
but you can keep that intimacy if you
structure it properly and then you also
don't get on your high horse too badly
cuz you know people are always coming up
to you and telling you well like the
story that you just told about the guy
who came up to you you know with his
with his brother who was in such trouble
and hearing those sorts of stories from
people and seeing them open themselves
up like that it knocks the ego out of
you that's a really important thing to
have happen to you when you're touring
too because when you're the center of
that much attention you know you can get
puffed up that's so dangerous man it's
so dangerous to have that happen yeah I
don't never I don't never want to sit in
a position to where I feel like I'm
better than anyone that I'm singing to
yeah I don't like that ego that you see
come with people that are in Celebrity
Status like it's um it's a tragedy
because it ultimately it ends up the
person changes into whatever into
something completely different than what
people fell in love with them for in the
first place you know yeah like I I don't
see myself any different than anyone
else that I'm that I'm s like and that's
what's been so weird about this whole
thing anyway is like when I am
approached and of course may like maybe
I need to shave my beard and cut my hair
and wear a hat and then I can go out in
the public for a couple days but I kind
of stand out in the crowd anyway at my
height and red hair and all and
so yeah but it's it hasn't been a at
least not yet it hasn't been a bother
it's been
um it's been nice to know
that it's been nice to know that it has
made a positive impact on people like
um I don't know I just uh I just felt so
hopeless for the future for such a long
time that like seeing people just seeing
people feel something that I haven't
seen in a long time means a lot it means
a lot more to me
than than anything else than the money
or whatever you know what made you you
said that for a long time you had felt
hopeless about the future and you
alluded to this song that you wrote too
about sobriety what also about
identifying to some degree let's say
with my friend Chris what do you think
what do you think it was that tempted
you to feel hopeless about the future
and how have you dealt with that to the
degree that you have and how have you
dealt with that
successfully
um I the hopelessness I think comes from
from seeing us all
like we've just we find fault in each
other instead of finding
common ground in each other anymore like
to your point about Chris and like like
with you know and I and that's one of
the verses in the in the popular song is
that um it references young men
committing suicide it this ridiculous
rate they are today because um yeah we
and I don't know why it is I think it's
I think it's almost been again through
social media in sort of the parasitic
way that it Alters our thinking like by
by just we read every day things that
just change the change our perception of
each other but we've gotten to a point
where we almost it's easier for us to
try to find differences and faults in
each other instead of similarities which
there we we all hold much more common
ground than we do difference you know I
mean we're all we're all very
biologically similar and we we all have
to acquire some amount of money we most
of us have Ambitions of raising a family
or at least have developing friendships
like um you
know I'd say 90% of the people that at
least exists in North America are are
very similar in almost every way but
it's like we've somehow found the
nitpick arbitrary differences that we
hold and we exploit those and blow those
up and so yeah it feels hopeless because
we are more divided today than we've
ever been like everything's politicized
everything is about um one one p one
party or one person trying to hold some
more High Ground over the other just for
the sake of of being able to point your
finger down at them you know um and it's
like what the hell are we doing like
we've got a we have just an incredible
opportunity to live in the place that we
do the fact that you and I can can use
free speech and free thought because
speech and thought are one and the same
like if if people aren't able to have
open honest conversations with each
other they aren't able to conceptualize
new ideas that takes us into a better
place than whatever place it we were in
previously like that's just that's human
existence 101 and so so to see that
being threatened and to see us all sort
of being put into these categories and
these political buckets you know um it's
like even even just our own even the
personalities of people have been
weaponized against each other you know
you made a good point it's been a couple
years ago maybe where you were talking
about and I never looked at people this
way prior but you were talking about
just in people's own Persona and their
personality and the way they think
people can be more conservative or
liberal like entrepreneurial imaginative
people are typically more liberal and
you know like in a business you you've
got the CEO is typically going to have a
more conservative perspective and the
the guy coming up with the new ideas the
entrepreneurial guy he's going to be
more liberal and it's like it seems like
they've whoever this day is the man
behind the curtain if you will I don't
know if that's just I I don't know who I
I don't know how to explain that side of
it but it seems like things have become
very much like taking the imaginative
creative person and weaponizing him
against the more traditionalist grounded
person instead of them using their
strengths together to sort of build a
brighter future it's about taking each
other and seeing how far like how far we
can take this thing but ultimately my
hopelessness comes from from like what
is this country or what is this world
going to look like in 20 or 30 years
like what world are my kids going to
live in is it going to be are they going
to be allowed to say what they think are
they going to even be able to walk down
the sidewalk I mean like you know better
than most about just the atrocities that
went on a hundred years ago 150 years
ago like we're so close to falling back
into that um that's really where my
hopelessness comes from but I I do
believe things can be turned around for
the better in a short period of time
it's just people have to sort of retrain
the way they think about each other and
ultimately the way they think about
themselves you know um
God I've only been on I've been on
Twitter two weeks and
realized Twitter's not a good place to
be like people seem to spend a lot more
time finding fault in others on Twitter
than and that's time they should be
spending with their families or spending
working on a hobby or or a side business
or you know like a lot of our time is
wrapped up in so much in social media
and and and it's become very toxic you
know okay so so a couple of things there
so
in terms of keeping your feet on the
ground when you're when you've become a
celebrity become the center of attention
you know there's there's a tremendous
emphasis in the judeo-christian
tradition of attending to your own sins
right of taking the log out of your own
eye instead of worrying about the speck
in your neighbor's eye and certainly you
know you said you regard yourself as as
another just another person among people
you know and one of the things that's
very necessary to do if you are in a
celebrity position is to spend a fair
bit of time meditating on your own
inadequacies like not in an involuntary
and self-denigrating way the way that it
would be associated with depression
let's say but in a in a open eyed and
humble analytic way so that you remember
that you still that you have things to
improve right and that that's your
problem and your responsibility it's
actually a relief to do that and so
that's like a meditative or religious
practice and then you talked about the
relationship between the creative
entrepreneurial type and the
conservative managerial type and that's
partly what I was alluding to let's say
when I was talking about the
Partnerships that I've established with
people like CAA and Live Nation and and
uh the daily wire folks those
relationships have been made personal
you know rather than
organizational and so although they are
the people I'm working with our members
of large organizations the relationships
themselves are personal and they're
based on trust and because of that I've
been able to benefit from the managerial
capabilities of the people that I've
been working with and I learned that
actually from the man I was apprenticed
to as a graduate student at McGill
Robert Peele who's still a business
associate of mine Robert Bob was a very
good uh he was a very good administrator
as and manager as as well as a very good
entrepreneurial scientist and he was
very good at managing his lab and
keeping track of the necessary corporate
and administrative elements that made
the entire process move forward and it's
that's harder for Creative people
because those are sort of petty details
but you can learn how to value that and
it is like the creative person learning
to Value the conservative you know it's
the same thing the person who can put
things in place incrementally and move
forward move things forward efficiently
but perhaps Vision it's easy for the
Visionary to be contemptuous of that but
it's a big mistake just like it's a
mistake for the conservative type to
denigrate the Visionary type right
because now and then new ideas need to
come along but by personalizing that you
can you can attain that kind of Harmon
harmonious production that you described
and personalizing it also helps
remove some of that temptation to
denigrate the side that isn't you know
temperamentally aligned with you so if
you're careful you can have your cake
and eat it too you talked about this
selfauthoring.com
program you said you had developed a
couple of years ago three years ago or
so you developed something of a vision
for yourself and so do you remember what
the details of that Vision were and why
you decided to do
it yeah uh so I I'd used a couple of
your I'd used the self-authoring and I
also used the the personality trait for
my wife and I before we got married and
um oh that understand myself understand
myself yeah Okay so we've used both of
those like so we could figure out how we
had just moved in together and um we had
maybe been dating a couple years prior
to that and we were getting ready to get
married and
um yeah it was like trying to figure out
how we could you know like any couple
when you when you're living together
things are much different than when
you're not living together and you
really learn how you have to sort of
work around each other at home and so
yeah we used that but yeah
self-authoring was more of just trying
to figure out where my direction was
because I had
um I i' moved I dropped out of high
school I moved to Western North Carolina
um sort of in this pursuit of Adventure
I guess and um and then I'd had the head
injury and I had to move back and so
everything that I had sort of PL like my
vision of what I thought my 20s going
into my 30s would look like completely
flipped upside down and I had I had
landed the sales job still kind of in
the industrial construction industry and
it was paying the bills and I got to
talk to people every day and so I was
like well I'm pretty cool with this but
this really isn't what I want to do with
my life and um so yeah I did the
self-authoring program and realized that
like um I really needed to make some big
changes in my 20s and part of that was
selling our house we bought some acreage
and uh you know moved into a my and this
was
this really almost cost me in my
marriage but I was like hey honey we're
selling the house and we're we're buying
some land a mile off the road that's uh
full of ticks and mosquitoes and snakes
and we're going to live in a camper for
a couple years until we can try to
afford a mortgage and um but that was
that was the beginning of kind of the
vision of all this that I I really look
I wanted to be it's funny I was having
this conversation with my mom earlier
but she she said you know I remember you
saying the other day that like you
really said that you by the time you
were 35 you wanted to
have freedom of finance and be able to
do not necessarily retire but be able to
do whatever it is you wanted to do which
was for me like we want to get into
regenerative agriculture and um I'm very
interested in like Forest rais um
poultry and like I I love being in
nature like that's just where I seem to
thrive so yeah it was sort of changing
my direction away from like I don't need
a big mortgage I don't need a car pay
payment um so I sold I had a a nicer
truck I sold and I bought this old
suburban for $2,000 and started driving
it and so we got rid of our car payments
we got got out of our debt um you know
all we have is just the land payment so
it's about like taking my finances way
down to where my bills are low I don't
need to make as much money and I can try
to have some freedom to pursue like
that's really what I got out of it I'd
say
yeah so it really helped well that's a
radical change it's very easy to get
caught sort of in that monotonous every
day and then it's easy when all your
friends are buying new stuff and you
know they're sending you credit card
offers in the mailbox every day and it's
like it's very easy to get wrapped up in
sort of this world where you have to
work you have to work some terrible you
know seven to five that you don't like
and able to try to like live some life
you don't really even want to live so it
is very important like I um yeah I found
a lot of benefit out of that like I
think I think in an ideal world you
could just sit down with a notepad and
do exactly the same thing but the nice
thing about self-authoring is that it
sort of lays out the steps for you to
where to where you can just answer those
questions in a way and and be able to
reflect back a lot easier for somebody
like like a joeo like me that's not in
Psychology it's a it just speeds up the
process tremendously of trying to figure
out whatever it is you know it's very
you get caught up in the day-to-day of
life and and five years 10 years later
you've lost whatever it was you were 10
years ago it's very easy to just stay in
the present moment and not take the time
to reflect into the past and the future
and a way to align yourself with
whatever it is you really want to be and
that's and I think that's where anxiety
and depression and like divorce and
anger and all these things like these
terrible things manifest themselves into
like a to a family household and the
mother and the father fight and they get
divorced and the kids are like Things
Fall Apart because there isn't a there
people don't take the time to to just
figure out like where is this train
really headed you know so it is I I'd
highly recommend people do that
the Bible is the root of all wisdom
inspiration and spiritual nourishment
the Hallow app empowers you to explore
the Bible's profound teachings and to
effortlessly incorporate them into your
daily life a great place to start while
you deepen your understanding of the
Bible is to check out father Mike
schmitz's Bible in a year available on
the Hallow app for brief daily readings
and Reflections here you can dive into
an extensive library of Bible reading
plans accompanied by insightful
Reflections and Audi guided meditations
whether you're you're a seasoned Bible
reader or just starting your journey
hallow provides a platform for you to
engage with scripture like never before
studying the Bible's literary Brilliance
has influenced countless writers poets
and artists throughout history by
studying the Bible yourself you'll gain
a deeper appreciation for the power of
Storytelling symbolism and metaphor
enriching your understanding of
literature across different genres the
Hallow app also helps you connect with
the community of like-minded individuals
sharing experiences insights and
encouragement along the path to
spiritual growth download the app for
free at hall.com Jordan you can set
reminders and track your progress along
the way enrich your education and
nurture your mind and soul today
download the Hallow app at hall.com
Jordan that's hall.com
Jordan hall.com Jordan for an exclusive
3-month free trial of all 10,000 plus
prayers and
meditations that's the famous line the
people perish where there is no vision
the people perish and that's literally
the case because there's a bunch of
reasons for that is if you have no
vision you have no well-developed aim
and if you have no aim you have no
direction and that means you're lost and
if you're lost you're anxious and so
then you're invelop by anxiety and then
if you have no aim you have no hope
because hope is always experienced in
relationship to an aim and if if you're
in a marriage or other Collective and
you have no Collective aim then you're
in conflict because nothing unites you
and then you know when when my
colleagues and I were developing the
self-authoring program one of the things
that really struck me to the core in
them too was the fact that you know you
said that for a Joe Schmo like you the
self-authoring program was useful
because it broke things down it's like
well everybody needs that you know it
took me 10 years of clinical work and
training graduates and undergraduates to
understand how to break down a vision of
the future into its constituent steps
and that's partly because we are
stunningly bad at that in our culture
you know and I did some research into
the history of the education system to
find out why that was because I thought
how the hell can we have an education
system where I can have top rate
students who've been through 15 years of
school who've never been sat down once
and told write a vision for your
character and your life and I found out
that the education system itself which
was based on the Prussian military model
was designed designed
consciously by people who regarded
themselves as fascists this was in the
late 1800s who wanted to produce
obedient workers who couldn't think for
themselves so hey man guess what 150
years later that's exactly what we've
got and it is a stunning fact that
people are aren't encouraged well first
of all they're not encouraged at all but
second specifically they're not
encouraged to take that time to dream
and to say to themselves look okay buddy
here's the deal you can you can assume
that the world wouldn't object too
dramatically if your life wasn't an
absolute bloody catastrophe 100% of the
time and you could take a little time to
develop a vision about what you wanted
now you said you know you discovered
some things that were actually somewhat
difficult to pursue you know you you had
to give up your house you had to give up
your car you had to move into the woods
you sound like an introverted person to
me do you remember your score on the on
the understand myself do you remember
where you are for introver or
extroversion I believe that I I believe
that it actually showed I was more um
more
extroverted which yeah I can see the
introverted side I but but at the same
time like I love again it's like I found
a lot of as much as I hate like when I
was in my sales job I hated sales
budgets and numbers and I hated talking
to my boss about oh we've got to grow
this account this much like to me all
that was just horeshit I just like to go
out every day on job sites and like just
meet people from all around the country
and talk to them and and it just the
money came in because I connected with
those people and they said well we'll
buy stuff from you because we like
talking to you and that's kind of but
yeah so I don't yeah yeah the great way
to sell is to make relationships well
I'm wondering like are you are you do
you like crowds and groups or do you
like meeting people oneon-one and are
you interested in people or do you like
socializing I think I'm I'm very I'm
interested in people um I think I think
my draw to my draw to want to be more
excluded from society is because of some
of the pitfalls we talked about earlier
like I to me I see yeah I find it
depressing sometimes to be especially
here in Virginia like um because so like
and this is this is a phenomenon that
happens everywhere but especially on the
east coast in like semi- rural Virginia
everything looks exactly the same now
it's it's a Starbucks and a Target and a
multif family project and like no all
the T whatever whatever sort of
uniqueness and diversity each Town had
is sort of gone everything has just sort
of become this like retail dystopian
nightmare you know uh and I see a lot of
farm a lot of Farms being bought up and
converted into neighborhoods and
subdivisions and because Farms can't
make the money that if they're not
through a commercial contract and so
yeah just like it's just depressing to
see the way the Landscapes changed over
a period of time and so I think that's
really what that's what motivated me to
go um and you know even like like we're
here in Richmond filming today and
Richmond is a gorgeous City and it has
such a deep history
um but yeah like it's not what it was
and and you start to you see a lot of
homelessness and um you you just it's
evident when you're out in public that
things aren't the way they should be you
know how how did you negotiate with your
wife you so you had to go live in a
camper with the ticks and the mosquitoes
you know so well you you said you
developed this Vision but then you know
obviously when you were implementing it
there were things you had to give up and
sacrifice and and you said you know and
you can certainly understand why that
might cause some consternation in the
marriage how did you negotiate apprciate
that work through it um I guess I
I I focused very much on painting a
picture to her of what life would be
like in five or 10 years and not what it
would be like for the for the first five
years you know like we both have a
vision of um she's a she's in veterinary
medicine where we both love animals and
so um we've had this sort of dream and
part of this and this is another like
part of what I am excited about being
able to do again outside of the music is
like take some of the money that I'll
make from the streaming and uh we want
to start some form of a nonprofit or a
um some some sort of positive benefit
toward we I have this I'm not to go off
track I answer your but yeah I have this
sort of vision and even back then this
is what we dreamed of doing we started a
5013c 501c rescue with a with a friend
of ours for dogs and cats back then but
um it was sort of this idea of if we
were able to get acquire this property
we'd be able to in the next five or 10
or 20 years be able to do what we really
wanted to with it and if we didn't do
that and if we stayed where we were we
would be more comfortable and things
would be better in the in the short run
but really we would be looking back in
30 years really regretting that we
hadn't done it and that's sort of the
that's sort of the way I pushed it to
her and she was able to okay okay you
know and that's pretty cool you know I
can find a parallel in in that like now
that we're sitting here talking I can
find I've been watching your Exodus
series and I can find a parallel in that
and your story and your sort of um you
do you do a great job of and it's part
of what's inspired me to get back into
scripture the way I have because you've
done a great job of finding the
practicality in
scripture and presenting it in a way
that it's very easily un because so much
of the Bible is interpretation and
trying to understand the deeper meaning
in things and so yeah I can I think like
it's just it's important for people to
and this has been said many times in
many ways but it's important for people
to whatever it is that really tugs at
their heartstrings whatever that sort of
and you know maybe it's lost through the
education system but like as a child we
Al we all have these dreams of whatever
it is we want to do and life seems so
Limitless and it there's so much
potential and it's like you've got to
find a way to just to face that fear and
pursue it no matter what yeah I mean the
worst thing you could do is I have a
song called hell on Earth that I just
kind of threw together uh it's it's an
Android recording but it it it REM it
sort of reminisces this idea of like
you're a lot of people die and go to
hell before they ever hit the ground is
one of the lines in the song but it's
like people get stuck in this sort of
monotonous work let me drive to work
down the interstate and get pissed off
and flick everybody off when they cut
into my lane and go work this stupid job
that I don't like so I can come home to
this stupid house that I don't like and
pay so so I can pay all these stupid
bills that I don't want to pay and it's
like deep down inside of them there is
some sort of ambition or Pursuit that
they've um that maybe they've even
forgotten about but the subconscious has
such a weird way of holding on to things
that sometimes even our cognitive memory
it can't recognize you know so uh for me
it was like just I didn't want to die
not taking that chance you know you only
get you time is very precious like it
seems like we we live for a long period
of time but really 80 or 0 years and the
grand scheme of the world's existence is
just a blip on the map and so like we do
have to take I mean you don't know if
you'll even live to see tomorrow so yeah
you do have to pursue whatever it is
that you feel compelled to do in that
moment when when the time's there yeah
all right so you got about 10 cool
things there so you mentioned Exodus so
one of the things that happens in Exodus
is that Moses is being a Shepherd right
he's off with his midianite
father-in-law Jethro and he's married
one of Jethro's daughter ERS and he's
away from Egypt he's just minding his
own business and that's when he's
wandering down the pathway by Mount
Horeb which is the center of the world
it's Jacob's Ladder it's the place where
Jack would plant his beanock that that
stretches to Heaven it's reused that
symbol consistently in the Bible anyways
that's when he notices something off to
the side that glimmers and Glitters and
that's the burning bush and he could
continue just walking down the path
let's say as a relatively satisfying
Shepherd or maybe dissatisfied Shepherd
but he decides to go investigate this
thing that attracts his attention right
that's the key aspect of the story he
decides to go investigate what attracts
his attention and as he gets closer to
it he understands that he's on sacred
ground and when he continues his Pursuit
God himself speaks to him right and
that's when Moses becomes a leader and
that that's the story that's the story
of life is you know you said people are
all tangled up in the 9 to5 and they're
not paying any attention to anything but
immediate practicalities even though
they're dissatisfied with them and
they're ignoring what's calling to them
all right so Moses doesn't do that and
then he develops a vision you know and
that's the vision of the promised land
and everyone needs a vision of the
promised land because as we already said
that protects them from anxiety and
gives them hope and then you talked
about what you did with your wife now
when little kids play house and this
particularly interesting to me cuz I
used to play house with my wife when I
was like eight you know and this is how
kids play house like if you're a boy and
you're playing house with a girl to play
house properly this is the rules you
have to come up with a vision that you
offer the girl or she has to do the same
to you she she they have to say well
look here's the house you can maybe
sketch it out on the ground or we'll
pretend that this you know playground
structure is the house and there's the
door and there's the rooms and you be
the mom and I'll be the dad and here's
what we're going to play out happening
and the girl has to say yes I'm on board
with that and then you enter the same
fictional landscape and you said and you
noticed you have to do the same thing
with your wife it's exactly the same
damn thing is that once you develop a
vision for yourself let's say in your
imagination that's what calls for you to
you it's based on what you really want
you have to develop that Vision then you
have to say to her look here's what I
see 5 years down the road and either is
there a manner in which what you see and
what you envision and that was say your
wife's concern for her for animals and
so on the joint interest you had in that
is there some way that you have a vision
of five years down the road that we
could bring together that we would both
be thrilled to play out that we could
commit to right and so that Visionary
practice has to extend within the
marriage and then you get to play house
and then you get to play and that's a
hell of a lot better than beating each
other up and you know using force and
compulsion well those are the options
right as far as I can tell it's
slavery tyranny or negotiation and if
you negotiate in a Visionary way then
you get to play and if you get to play
well then you're not in that hell on
Earth that you described right you're as
close to the opposite as you can get so
you obviously managed that successfully
and so well I I presume and and and what
do your wife what does what does your
wife think about the way this vision is
unfolding yeah well it's
um
it's in the present moment she's a she's
very excited like um neither one of us
had any idea that any of this would
happen the way it did with the music but
as far as the yeah we're excited we're
excited
to
it's the last few the last few weeks
have been so difficult to interpret
anything cuz she's you know she's
pregnant now with my what'll be my first
son I've got I've got two daughters and
so this will be my my first boy so like
we the last couple weeks have been spent
more about trying to figure out what
we're going to name the little rascal
than anything else but yeah like it's we
our vision I think for the next 20 or 30
years is is very similar in what we want
to do it's you know we we want to make
sure that our children are brought up in
a way that they get to experience nature
and get to get
to sort of have some of the imaginative
and um and like you said even just some
of the playful nature that children have
we don't want them
to we want to do what we can to try to
protect them from being so
institutionalized at an early age into
sort of the system that you describe and
the way modern education works and um we
want them to be able to pursue whatever
P you know like we're very excited about
the opportunities with our children and
with our family and um yeah we want to
we have this vision of um
I don't know exactly how it'll work out
I there's a some there's a model very
similar that Robert Kennedy Jr describes
called a Healing Center but I think we
want to incorporate animals into it as
well to where it's but it's we want to
use our property maybe we even try to
purchase another piece of property just
through this nonprofit but I have this
vision of sort of creating a model that
can be replicated that involves
regenerative agriculture um people that
are suffering with PTSD and mental and
and people that have just getting out of
rehab and there's there is studies that
show that working that well hard work in
general helps anxiety and depression but
then be being out in nature doing it
like I think there's a there's a place
over in Italy that that does this that's
um that takes kids and that in that have
depression anxiety and suicidal thoughts
and all and sort of works them on this
Vineyard for a period of time and it's
got a very high success rate and so yeah
we have a vision of trying to take
whatever has been produced from this
and we want to sort of uh light a fire
maybe that will hopefully light other
fires and this can become something a
lot bigger than just what she and I want
to do you know with our world but yeah
it's about trying to sort of we we we
both are very like-minded in that in
sort of that bigger Vision I it did take
some time like it's you know it's
difficult it's very difficult for anyone
in today's society including me I mean
I'm just as I'm just like anybody else
but it's hard
to sometimes it's hard to
how would I say it it's hard
to take away the immediate gratification
of whatever world you're living in now
and those Comforts and being able to
somehow put those to the side for
something that doesn't even exist like
it's a terrifi it's a terrifying thing
that to make that leap but um i' say
this point There's No Going Back well
look look it is a leap of faith and you
have to you have to have first of all
you have to Faith to do anything because
you can't do anything unless you have
faith in it and so maybe you have faith
in your 95 routine and you think that's
the best that there is and that's Faith
too because like you said you might be
run over by a bus tomorrow and who the
hell knows what's going to happen you're
going to put your faith somewhere so
then the question is where should you
put your faith and one answer to that is
security or hypothetical security but
that seems to me to be a stupid answer
because there is no security so then if
there's no security then where do you
put your faith and then I would say well
you put your faith in what beckons you
know and music beckons to people and
Beauty beckons to people and art and
Justice and Truth like these Eternal
varities the path of heroism beckons
these things call right and that's the
burning bush and you have to put your
faith in something because you're
ignorant and you don't know everything
so you have to take a leap and you know
it sounds to me that one of the things
that you and your wife figured out is
that you should take a leap into the
unknown to the spot that beckons right
and those are those things that call to
you you said unconsciously that won't go
away that won't stop bugging you like
Jiminy Cricket you know your conscience
calling you to that's what you're
supposed to put Faith in and that's
that's part of the classic
representation of God in the
judeo-christian tradition like God is
the voice of conscience that's what the
Prophet Elijah establishes he's not out
in nature he's not in the Thunder he's
not in the earthquake right he's not Gia
he's not even the cosmos God is what
beckons to you from conscience and what
calls to you and you ignore that at your
peril and your song you said hell on
Earth is like hell on Earth is where you
go if you don't pay attention to what
your conscience tells you and to what
beckons and that's the truth and it's
also the case you
know if you get tangled up into that
routine you hate that industrial routine
predictable industrial generic routine
and you're pissed off going to work and
you're giving everyone the finger and
you're resentful and bitter like you're
one step away from wanting to turn any
everything into hell just to get revenge
for your miserable life that's the story
of Cain by the way because it's Cain's
descendants right Cain gets bitter and
it's Cain's descendants that first make
weapons of war you know and the
aftermath of Cain's descendants well the
thing that happens after the things that
happen after the story of Cain and ab
right the fratricide and then the
degeneration into murderousness is the
flood that wipes everything out and also
the Tower of Babel which is this
terrible technological construction that
you were referring to this terrible
generica you know mindless generica
that's spread everywhere that posits a
mere technological solution a
technocratic solution to every problem
those are two various forms of hell and
this this is very real you know and well
it's real enough to B your life on I
believe that's what we're experiencing
today like I think that what you said is
exactly what's happened today and um
when I look at Republicans and Democrats
in 2023 that's what I see is I see
people who are bitter and angry and
disgusted with a system that isn't
serving anyone correctly but instead of
us being a in the same way that in a
business someone with a with a more um a
more conservative mindset and someone
with a more liberal mindset could use
entrepreneurial and like traditional and
organizational skills to build a strong
business which is what we should be
doing in our political climate in our
country we we're using our bitterness as
a weapon against each other you know um
it's
it's it's been interesting I think
obviously a lot of people understand
what what it is I'm trying to say or
what my message is within the song but
it has been interesting seeing both
sides also attack me misinterpreting
that I'm identifying with the other you
know I've had uh well like for example
I've had even just recently I've had
some conservatives give me grief for
making the comment that that were
stronger or something to the I this was
in the middle of a concert it was I
think I said strength through diversity
which really resonates on exactly what
what that point is that we need to have
people that think differently use those
strengths to work together and in a way
that makes us all stronger but I think
people are so used to hearing that as a
sort of a left-wing rhetoric that they
immediately identified it as that and
then on the and then on the flip side
I've had the left very much attacking me
as being sort of this right-wing far
rightwing whatever you know and you've
experienced this yourself but at some
point we've got to figure out a way to
we've got to figure out a way to to for
us as a just us as a society Maybe
find a way to to LEAP out of that like
what we're what we're facing in today's
world is much bigger than than that that
that's that is important it's important
that we have politics and that we have a
system in which we decide how different
ideas are implemented in the government
but it can't rule us either like we've
allowed it to not sit here at the
Wayside but we've allowed it to almost
encapsulate all of us like it's it's
become sort of the ceiling under which
we live under and um you know I've had
people say that I'm a fence sitter and
that I I need to have some sort of call
to
action and I guess like if there's
anything that I would respond to that
with um given the opportunity we have
now it's like I think we need to take a
step back and um
re-envision what we want the next 20 or
30 years to look like and there's an
important verse that came to mind
um this was this is in Matthew uh 22
starts in 34 but it's it's where the
Pharisees are questioning Jesus on like
because even throughout the Bible there
are contradictions obviously and and
people have different form forms of
opinion and different ways things are
worded even throughout the Bible but he
says
um a Pharisee asked Jesus teacher which
is the greatest commandment in the law
and Jesus replied love the Lord your God
with all your heart with all your soul
and with all your mind this is the first
and greatest commandment and the second
is love your neighbor as yourself and
like as simple as that is if we could
just find a way to make those two
Commandments even outside of religious
boundaries just if we could just if we
could learn to make that our priority
and then base our differences Beyond
below that you know like God is here our
love for each other here and then below
that is try to find a way to integrate
our differences in a way that everyone
can can live a better life
like it would it would resolve a lot of
the conflicts that have become like way
over complicated you know okay so I
think you're I think you you pointed to
in some ways I don't know if you could
call that the most
crucial the most crucial of lines in the
biblical Corpus but it's damn close
because what's happening in that story
as you no doubt know is that the
Pharisees the scribes the lawyers
they're they're kind of the political
class right they're the privileged class
and what they're trying to do is they're
trying to trap Christ into making a
heretical statement so they can kill him
essentially or at least throw them in
prison that's the plan so they've set up
traps which is exactly what that
question is and he does this incredible
slight of hand which is a a mark of
Staggering Brilliance instead of taking
the Ten Commandments which are the law
right the Moses established law and
saying well this one's what they want
them to do is say well it's number four
that's most important because then they
can say well you don't think number 1
through three or 5 through 10 is
important and so it's off to prison with
you buddy and so they think they've
trapped him because they put him in a
place where there's nothing he can say
that won't get him in trouble and what
he does is conduct a little Revolution
ethically right then and there and say
well if you arrange those Ten
Commandments and you abstracted out the
gist the essence it would be twofold and
one of the Essences is that you should
put the thing that should be at the top
at the top and that's God and that's the
logos and that's the truthful speech
that when uttered changes possibility
into the order that is good that's what
the logos is that has to be at the top
it's the same as putting freedom of
speech and religion at the top it's the
same idea and that that love of God then
becomes the expression of the fact that
human beings are made in the image of
God that has to be at the top and then
allied with that Christ says so that's
the vertical Dimension it's like the
vertical dimension of Mount Si that's
the vertical Dimension you look up you
aim up and then the horizontal Dimension
the collective Dimension is you have to
understand that everyone else is a
reflection of the
same of the same Divine value that
characterizes you yes you have to treat
everyone and I've been trying to work
through that technically and it's
like I don't think there is any
difference between treating yourself
properly and treating other people
properly and part of the reason for that
is purely practical it's like think
about it this way you are very badly
outnumbered there's one of you and 8
billion other people and so if you
mistreat other people if you put
yourself first that is going to come to
haunt you man in a way you can't
possibly imagine
whereas if by contrast you treat other
people as if they're as valuable as you
in every interaction you have people are
going to be so thrilled to have you
around that they're going to be
extending you the same luxury constantly
and so perversely by
stopping focusing on your own narrow
self-interests and by inviting other
people into the
game everyone will have more and so will
you and I actually think that's
technically true partly because you know
you said earlier in our conversation
that people have this difficulty when
they have to sacrifice the present for
the future right and the thing is is
when you start to think about the future
what you're doing is saying well the the
50-year-old me you know the me that's 10
years down the road is just as important
as the me that's here right now and so
is the 60-year-old me and you have to
construe yourself as a community that
iterates across time and then you have
to take that whole Community into
account and if you do that it's the same
as taking other people into account and
it's the proper moral orientation and
it's not proper for arbitrary reasons
it's proper because if everyone did that
the world would become peaceful and
abundant and we could live in something
approximating Harmony and many of the
problems that be set us would merely as
a consequence of the better governance
that would emerge many of the problems
that would that are plaguing us would
vanish you know we've been working on
this Enterprise in London called The
Alliance for responsible citizenship
trying to develop a vision for the
future let me let me tell you one thing
about it and you ask you what you think
about it so we've been trying to figure
out how you tell the real leaders you
know let's say someone comes to you and
says I've got a vision for the
future and you might say well those are
kind of a dime a dozen how the hell do I
know that you're not just another
manipulator or you know in it for your
own narrow purposes how do I know I can
trust you and so I've been trying to
work through that so here's some
possibilities you tell me what you think
about this so I would say if if the
person who's developing the vision is
trying to impose their Vision on You by
force then they're not good leaders and
if they're trying to terrify you into
adopting their Vision so they use fear
then they're not good leaders they're
good leaders if they offer you a vision
like you offered your wife which is
here's a possible game what do you think
of it and would you like to voluntarily
play if someone can do that then they're
a leader you can trust at least you know
assuming they're playing a straight game
and so the rule is if the person is
using power and compulsion or fear then
their vision is
unreliable and so I think that's even
true if there is a crisis you don't get
to ter y people they have to invite them
so what do you think about that what
does what's your first response to that
yeah I think that
um I'd say that it's it's obvious that
if at the core of of anyone's motive is
really either yeah it's either love or
hate it's it's either that it's
something that that's obviously
benefiting people that people are
excited to
to promote themselves but then there are
a lot of things you see implemented that
are at they can be very well disguised
but at their core they are fear-based
you know like um Fe either in a sense of
intimidation or in a sense of maybe
false sense of urgency like you've got
and I've experienced that myself now
just with my career opportunities like
you've got to do this now and it and
it's perceived in a way that's supposed
to be helping me but it is a it's a it's
driven on it's driven off the human
emotion of fear and so I think that's
that's the way to to ultimately
understand if some if something is like
in your case if something
is is genuine and authentic or not is
what yeah what human em emotion is it
being driven off of is it being driven
off of off of Love and ambition or is it
being driven more off of um of of hate
and fear I mean that's really the core
of
in the world right but yeah say that's
and trying to dissect that as a whole
another animal but but ultimately yeah
it is it's all driven off of basic em
everything's driven off of very basic
emotion I'd say at its at its core you
know yeah well and you said false sense
of urgency you know I actually think
this even applies in a true sense of
urgency you know because the the climate
people for example might say oh my God
there's an apocalyptic catastrophe
pending it's real and it's so urgent
that here the following measures must be
taken okay so we could take that
argument we could say well look even if
it is a true emergency let's give you
that um which isn't something I'm
generally willing to do by the way but
in any case we for the sake of argument
we'll say okay there is an actual
emergency here I would still say if your
response to that emergency is that
you're now willing to wield fear as the
cudel of power then you're too little a
man for the job is that if the crisis is
terrified you into becoming a tyrant
then you're facing a dragon that you
can't defeat and so you're not the right
guy I think even when there is a crisis
you should lead people with Faith and
Hope and not with power and fear and
that's a way of distinguishing the real
the real true leaders let's say from the
false prophets so to speak
absolutely that's how it looks to me
yeah I agree yeah so I wanted to ask you
I wanted to ask you about Rogan just out
of curiosity you went on his show I've
been there three or four times I've got
to know Joe a little bit what was that
like for you and what do you think of
Rogan um I yeah I love Rogan's really
cool he's just uh and and not like I
said I've met so many of my heroes I
guess you'd say they're all just very
down Earth people like um which is which
is refreshing to see that you know you
hear horror stories about certain people
presenting a sort of characterization to
the world of being one thing but then
behind closed doors there's they're this
sort of like monstrous
egotistical creature that is is
unapproachable and not really humanlike
and so yeah it's nice that but yeah I
love Rogan he's
uh I I was impressed at
his the way he does the way he conducts
his business it's very streamlined and
um it's yeah yeah yeah he has a a small
staff he's very straight to the point
with everything it's like it's it's nice
to see and I think that's what's brought
him the success he's had is that he
hasn't he hasn't turned it into sort of
this um he he could make it a lot bigger
and and quote unquote better than it is
but he keeps it very just simple and
real and so yeah I I enjoyed meeting him
we had a great time when we were that
was my first time off the east coast so
we we're in Austin obviously and uh we
did The Joe Rogan podcast and then that
night um I connected with Tom sigura
who's another great like I can't say
enough nice things about Tom um he
invited us to the Mothership to what we
thought was going to be just to hang out
and meet everybody and we only flew one
guitar Doss and I was scared to fly my
um I was scared to fly my resonator
guitar there I just figured somebody
would steal it or it would get crushed
or something and so we only flew my
guitarist guitar in so we had one uh we
get to the Mothership and um Tom's like
man you really ought to get up and play
a few songs at the end of my set and uh
I wasn't going to say no so um so Ron
White was there and uh oh yeah Ron White
takes my guitarist in his car flies
across town like not even necessarily
figuratively speaking but they they get
to his house and back in a short period
of time and uh five minutes before we go
up and so we went up and um just had a
blast it was just an incredible weekend
or it wasn't even on it was a Monday and
Tuesday it was just incredible time time
we had there I uh it's one of those
that's insanely fun yeah yeah it was one
one of those times so yeah everyone we
met including Rogan
just good good down to earth people um
yeah every time I go to see Rogan and
this is really the truth it's like I
breathe a sigh of relief when I get into
his Studio because first of all he's
insanely funny and that's always such a
relief but also I know perfectly well
that I'm going to talk to someone for
three hours and I'm not going to have to
be have my snake eye open you know
looking for serpents because Ro Rogan is
just exactly who he is and like he'll
push back and he has his opinions and
he's a hard-headed bastard and all of
that but he's not like a he's not a
Pharisee you know he's not laying traps
for you to step into so he can look good
at your expense he doesn't do that and
it's such a bloody relief to talk to him
and I'm sure that's that's a huge part
of the reason that he is so successful
is that people can trust him and you
know as far as I can tell that trust is
warranted because every single situation
I've seen Joe in and I've seen him in a
lot of situations and some pretty
intense ones and challenging ones he
doesn't get edgy he isn't egotistical he
doesn't defend himself he's just like
calm and together and probably his
fighting background has helped him with
that too you know I'd say so it's hard
to intimidate Rogan yeah yeah
SOB for Jo think that was part in my
thought process going through this like
I questioned whether I should even do a
podcast at all because I'm not I'm not a
public speaker but um you know or at
least I guess I'm not really even a
musician I mean our first you know our
first paid gig was the was the farm
market the big the big farm market with
12,000 people so it's kind of like maybe
I am a public I don't know what I am at
this point but uh I remember right well
you have to find out within those first
couple days of everything blowing up and
like we were getting flooded with
requests for interviews and podcast and
I remember telling my buddy and I was I
was joking it like I had no idea it
would turn into this but I said I want
to do Joe Rogan for my introductory and
I want to do Jordan Peterson like to try
to unpack all of this and then I'm going
to call it good and let that be that and
so like here we are I mean it's
uh it's yeah it's crazy it's still
surreal that you and I are talking like
it's so funny I'll tell you talk since
we're talking about my wife some um and
I mentioned this on Joe Rogan that I
drove her crazy listening to camping
with Steve YouTube videos at night
before he went to bed and so I got to
meet camping with Steve he and I have
connected and talked and he's just
awesome but uh she doesn't know your
name but she would get driven crazy
because anytime I'm in the house like
cooking dinner or doing anything I've
got philosopher man on and that's so
she'd say oh you're listening to
philosopher man again but I'd listen to
your stuff for hours every night so it's
just again it's just crazy that we're
sitting here having this conversation
but I told her I told her I was going on
the Jordan Peterson podcast and she said
Jordan Peterson I said you know
philosophy
man you have to apologize to or for me
yeah yeah oh yeah well that's pretty
pretty it's pretty funny all right yeah
well you know that's yeah well that's so
interesting well it's so interesting too
for me to see that you know that you
developed this crazy Vision a few years
ago and now all these surreal things are
happening to you and I actually think
that's how the world works man I think
the world has a real dreamlike quality
to it you know which is why we dream to
try to figure it out and
your dreams call to you I mean that's
what the psychoanalysts taught I
certainly learned that from Freud and
more even from Carl Yung you know that
your dreams you're you can dream the
future in fact that's how the future
comes about you're it's either you
either dream the future or you let it
turn into a nightmare like those are the
options and so you dream the future by
asking yourself what you want assuming
that you're trying to take care of
yourself and you do that in a way that
brings other people on board you know
with this Ark Enterprise in the UK we're
trying to develop a vision that that
when people he they think geez you know
I i' I'd make some sacrifices to be part
of that I'd put some work into that
they're not trying to hit me over the
head with a cul and they're not trying
to frighten me they're trying to invite
me to the table right they're inviting
me to the discussion and that's really
what we're praying and both
metaphorically and literally to do is to
say look man if we got our act together
if we were all vision iies and we told
the truth and we cooperated properly
there's no we could make the Desert
Bloom right there's there's no limit to
the problems we could solve we don't
have to run around like Chicken Little
claiming that the sky is falling and you
know put all these limitations on oursel
and doom the third world to peny and
starvation and assume that there's too
many people on the planet we could just
shoulder our damn burdens and walk
uphill properly and fix the place and we
can do that and and if we don't well
we'll get what's coming to us and we've
had that happen a couple of times in the
20th century and that wasn't so pretty
and so hopefully we'll be smart enough
God I hope we're smart enough not to do
that again yeah I mean that
um it's there's there's verses in
Ecclesiastes that talk about repetition
throughout time but there's always that
same that same driving force and that
element that um created the Soviet Union
and created so many nightmares before it
and after it like that still is just as
much present today as it was then and
it's like if we don't yeah it's like we
you have to be proactive at at keeping
that that um that that balance that
Harmony there because like that the
political climate in the world we live
in now is benefiting a handful of people
and it seems like that handful of people
was doing everything they can to keep
the system in that sort of disord but if
if yeah if somehow If people could and
you're right and it's like you talk
about imag the power of the power of
imagination you know but it really is
the truth it's like if people could just
figure out yeah in their own space how
to make things better and how and just
even have a vision of things being
better and we and just a certain amount
of people did that like that's all it
takes and then a lot of the a lot of the
this problems that we talk about like
even in politics and all would almost
would almost resolve themselves just
inherently from yeah from that from
people taking responsibility well that's
right well the the there's
another scene in Exodus where that's
actually laid out um it becomes part of
the principle of subsidiarity which is a
core element of Catholic Social Doctrine
and a fundamental element of genuine
conservatism which is that if you build
a hierarchy of responsibility so
individual marital famili IAL Community
State all of those levels and every
single level takes its
responsibility there's no reason to have
a king and there's no desert right but
and the rule is something like this is
every bit of responsibility that you
refuse to take on your own behalf on
behalf of your family let's say or your
community that responsibility will be
taken up by tyrants and used against you
and I think well how could it be any
different different right because if you
leave something necessary just lying
there on the table that's just an
invitation for a thief to steal it like
obviously so yeah you you take you make
a vision for your own life and you take
responsibility because if you
don't someone else will steal someone
else will steal your destiny someone
else will steal your soul you know or
and it might be a handful of people or
it might be the dread Spirit that's
driving their greed and that's something
whose hands you do not want to fall into
you know you'll end up on the road to
hell you know or contemplating or
committing suicide or torturing people
and that's probably that's probably not
the vision you want to pursue that's for
sure yeah because it's very contagious
all right sir yeah it's very that energy
is very contagious yeah like if I mean
just think about if you if I mean just
going back to going our conversation
about commuting on the interstate but
yeah just somebody cut somebody else off
and that it's almost like they hold on
to that and then they EV whether they do
it consciously or passive aggressively
at some point maybe it's to their boss
or their kids or their cooworker but
then they kind of pass it off on
somebody else and it creates this it's
everything's very much more it's very
connected in a way that we don't really
see on the surface level you know
yeah yeah that's for sure yeah I had a
vision of that here recently you know so
people think well I'm just one person in
a mass of 8 billion you know what can I
do but imagine this imagine a globe okay
with points on it and then all those
points are networked together you know
okay so now imagine you're one of those
points on that Globe now when you zoom
into it from a distance that point will
be the one that's closest to you you
know so it looks like it's the top of a
kind of a
rounded kind of like a rounded pyramid
that's a way of thinking about it so
you're at you're at the center of a web
of a thousand people because you're
going to know a thousand people well in
your life at least you're going to have
an influence on them and then those
thousand are surrounded by a thousand
each and so that's a million people one
person away from you and it's a billion
people two two people away from you and
that's where you are you're in the
center of the world in that way you a
thousand people a million people and
then a billion people you're at that
Center and everything you do do Echoes
and the World set up like that so we're
each a center where everything we do
Echoes and that's a terrifying thing to
realize right because that means
whatever happens is on you I was reading
this dovi quote the other day and
writing about he said he has a father
there zasa who is the spiritual guide of
this uh I think it's Alo alosia who's a
mon a mon monastic noviciate in the
brothers kov which is a great book and
Zas tells
alosha you are responsible not only for
everything you do but for everything
everyone else does and you think Jesus
that's a completely absurd proposition
but then you think you know well you
think about it this way man if you were
a really if you were the worst person
you could
be and that's something to think about
if you were the worst person you could
be you could produce a lot of hell and
misery God only knows how much a lot of
people would be way worse than they are
because of you and maybe you know in
infinitely worse and but if you were the
best person you could be a lot of people
who are bad wouldn't be nearly as bad as
they are and so when you see all this
misery around you and all these
miserable people you got to ask yourself
you know how much of that is a
consequence of the things that you've
left undone M or the things you've did
and man if you have any sense and you
really think about that that'll terrify
you right to the bottom of your soul and
that's a good thing it's a terrible
thing you know but it's a necessary
thing and that's and that's why just the
the more I
haven't The more I've thought through
sort
of even just what it is you said now
it's there has to be something pure and
honest and righteous at the top of our
Focus collectively in order to maintain
that but that's yeah I mean so yeah
that's really the that's that's the
importance of that's the importance of
having of idolizing God at the top of
that structure is that's the only way I
see that Purity and that Honesty being
maintained collectively among a group of
people but yeah that's a great way
that's a great the spider web I like
that yeah yeah well it's a very good
Vision well and I think I think what you
closed with there is correct as far as I
can tell like that's the insistently
repeated message of the biblical Corpus
and all the works of wisdom that
surround it is that you have to put
what's appropriately ultimate at the top
and that is something like
the sum of all that's good right the sum
of botom it's that's a definition of God
it's truth and Beauty And Justice and
mercy all united into a single character
that's a way of thinking a character
you're supposed to embody and put at the
top which is the same as celebrator
worship yeah I think that's right look
we should stop I guess it's 107 minutes
into this 90minut uh podcast and it was
really fun talking to you um it's really
good to meet you and I would say man
congratulations on your success
congratulations on developing your
vision congratulations to you and your
wife for having enough sense to knock
your heads together and come to
something approximating a consensual
solution and to getting over your
resentment and and uh you know to having
your dreams come true and isn't that a
weird thing that that can actually
happen yeah that's for sure yeah it's
I'm I'm excited to see what happens in
the future yeah and likewise with you
congratulations on even recent success
and I I'm excited to see I know that
you're you're in the midst of a lot of
different battles and so I wish you the
best with all them I keep you my prayers
and I I hopefully it we'll be able to
keep in contact uh moving forward I like
I said I I definely enjoy having
conversation with
you yeah well there's something exciting
about having an adventure that's crazy
enough so you literally don't know
what's going to happen next I mean
that's that's a good way to keep you on
your toes and not resentful it's like
what weird thing could Poss possibly
happen now that's a real Adventure man
yeah no kidding all right so for
everybody watching and listening I'm
going to continue
talking to Oliver Anthony on my on the
YouTube on the dailywire plus side of
this platform or this interview we're
going to talk a little bit more about
autobiographical issues which is what I
generally do there thank you to the film
crew here in Florence for making this
possible today and for dailywire Plus
for facilitating it and thank you very
much for talking to me today and uh good
luck keeping your head straight through
this
crazy this crazy sallying forth that
you're embarking upon byebye everybody
thank
[Music]
you